HTML CSS DAY 2

FLOATS

Positioning
  absolute
  relative
  fixed
  static

static
-everything has position static by default. basically any html element that is not set yet.

fixed
- tells a div to position to a viewport as if there is a shade of glass between you and your website & it sticks to the shade of glass.
fixed position does not affect the position of other elements.

sticky
- when you scroll down to a different section of the  screen and then the element sticks.


relative
- because the position is moved the original place of the element(pos:rel) is reserved.
we can use top,right,bottom,left to adjust our element
we can use relative position for a .click() method because it has reserved it's original position.

absolute
- moves element out of the original flow of the page and original position is not reserved.
does it affect other elements?
No other elements are not effected by position absolute.
absolute sort of floats above other elements.
we can use bottom,top,right,left to move it
position absolute finds the nearest parent element has relative:position
if none of its ancestors have the position of relative it will position itself to the viewport
absolute will position according to any parent element with the position: absolute or relative.


DISPLAY
  block
  inline
  inline-block
  flex
  none

kind of like a cousin of positioning

BLOCK
by default element will have a display of block. will use box-model.
by default it will take up a whole block across the page. completely block off left and right of the page.
margin:auto will set block element to center. it is free to move anywhere within that block.
push other blocks out the way

INLINE
just going to be text and content.
box-model goes out the window.
allows elements to sit next to eachother. will be only as big as the content
doesnt  compensate height and width

INLINE-BLOCK
element will behave as an inline element however have a height and width.
won't block left and right. be inline with other blocks.

FLEX
not supported by all browsers
flexercises tonight 11-2

NONE
no dimension
browser will recognize but not render the element
will show up in the DOM but not on the page.
uses include using javascript to bring the content to display on page after not displaying.
visibility:hidden still occupies space on the screen but cannot be seen.


OVERFLOW
  Hidden
  Auto
  Scroll

content that will overflow will not affect any elements. it will appear to spill over the sister and brother elements.

AUTO
will adjust size of element to the content

HIDDEN
content will not be shown and will be hidden in element

SCROLL
will ad a scroll bar to the hidden content


WIDTH/HEIGHT

max-width is the maximum width of the element at the given coordinates of the browser page. it will stop its width at the coordinates.
look up mdn max-width

min-width is the amount of which we want our element to stop shrinking at given width.
look up mdn min-width

max-height not as flexible


SPECIFICITY
how does the browser know what rules to follow?

  SPECIFIC RULES
    type selectors
    class selectors
    ID selectors


CENTERING -vertically & horizontally
display:block;
position:absolute;
top:50%;
left:50%;
    box's top left corner will align to the center of the screen so here we must use transform when we dont want to use flexbox
  transform: rotateY(-50%) rotates on y axis
  transform: translate(-50%,-50%) moves box element half of where it is originally positioned
